# What's New in v0.3.1

::: tip Note
This version is not released yet.
:::

## Prolog Class Enhancements

### Mandatory Keyword Arguments

::: warning
This change may break your code.
:::

Some keyword arguments such as `catcherrors` used to be passable as positional arguments.
For instance the following was valid:
```python
Prolog.assertz("big(airplane)", False)
```

Starting with v0.3.1, it is mandatory to pass arguments such as `catcherrors` as keyword arguments:
```python
Prolog.assertz("big(airplane)", catcherrors=False)
```

### Multiple terms for Prolog.dynamic

Updated `Prolog.dynamic` to accept one ore more terms:
```python
Prolog.dynamic("mother/1", "father/1")
```

## Introducing the Examples Package

The new `pyswip.examples` package enables using some of the PySwip examples in code and the command line.
Currently, only the `sudoku` package is available as an example package, but there will be more in the future.

### pyswip.examples.sudoku

The `pyswip.examples.sudoku` package provides the `Matrix` class which holds a 9x9 Sudoku puzzle.
You can create a `Matrix` instance from a list-of-lists.
Items in that list should be integers in the range `[0-9]` where `0` represents a blank column:
```python
from pyswip.examples.sudoku import Matrix

data = [
    [0, 6, 0, 1, 0, 4, 0, 5, 0],
    [0, 0, 8, 3, 0, 5, 6, 0, 0],
    [2, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1],
    [8, 0, 0, 4, 0, 7, 0, 0, 6],
    [0, 0, 6, 0, 0, 0, 3, 0, 0],
    [7, 0, 0, 9, 0, 1, 0, 0, 4],
    [5, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 2],
    [0, 0, 7, 2, 0, 6, 9, 0, 0],
    [0, 4, 0, 5, 0, 8, 0, 7, 0],
]
puzzle = Matrix(data)
```

Alternatively, a `Matrix` instance can be created from a string.
In this case, dot (`.`) character represents a blank spot:
```python
from pyswip.examples.sudoku import Matrix

text = """
. 6 . 1 . 4 . 5 .
. . 8 3 . 5 6 . .
2 . . . . . . . 1
8 . . 4 . 7 . . 6
. . 6 . . . 3 . .
7 . . 9 . 1 . . 4
5 . . . . . . . 2
. . 7 2 . 6 9 . .
. 4 . 5 . 8 . 7 .
"""
puzzle = Matrix.from_text(text)
```

Once a `Matrix` instance is created, you can solve it using the `solve` function (surprise!).
It will return a solution `Matrix` if there's a solution, otherwise `False`:
```python
from pyswip.examples.sudoku import solve

solution = solve(puzzle)
if solution:
    print(solution)
else:
    print("There's no solution")
```

You can retrieve the Prolog source that solves the puzzle using the `prolog_source` function:
```python
from pyswip.examples.sudoku import prolog_source

source = prolog_source()
print(source)
```

A sample puzzle is returned using `sample_puzzle` function:
```python
from pyswip.examples.sudoku import sample_puzzle

puzzle = sample_puzzle()
print(puzzle)
```

## Prolog.consult Enhancements

### Tilde character in paths are expanded to the user home directory

```python
Prolog.consult("~/my_files/hanoi.pl")
# consults file /home/me/my_files/hanoi.pl
```

### Both strings and pathlib.Path objects are allowed as paths

```python
from pathlib import Path
Prolog.consult(Path("myfile.pl"))
# equivalent to:
Prolog.consult("myfile.pl")
```

### Added relative_to keyword argument

`relative_to` keyword argument makes it easier to construct the consult path.
This keyword is no-op, if the consult path is absolute.

If the given `relative_to` path is a file, then the consult path is updated to become a sibling of that path.
Assume you have the `/home/me/project/facts.pl` that you want to consult from the `run.py` file which exists in the same directory `/home/me/project`.
Using the built-in `__file__` constant which contains the path of the current Python file , it becomes very easy to do that:
```python
# in run.py
Prolog.consult("facts.pl", relative_to=__file__)
```

If the given `relative_path` is a directory, then the consult path is updated to become a child of that path.
```python
project_dir = "~/projects"
Prolog.consult("facts1.pl", relative_to=project_dir)
Prolog.consult("facts2.pl", relative_to=project_dir)
```

Symbolic links are not yet supported yet.
